# CKY Parser

The `CKY Parser` is a Python-based implementation of the Cocke-Kasami-Younger (CKY) algorithm. It effectively parses grammatical structures provided in the Doty syntax, enabling the recognition of strings in the Chomsky Normal Form.

## Features

- **Grammar Parsing:** Parses grammars following the Doty syntax and represents them as a dictionary in Python.
- **Sliding Window Technique:** This technique is employed while reading the grammar to facilitate efficient extraction and storage of grammar rules.
- **CKY Algorithm:** Uses the CKY algorithm—a tabulation method that employs dynamic programming—to parse the string based on the provided grammar.
  - The main data structure is a 2D list (table) initialized with empty sets and filled according to the CKY algorithm.
  - Helps determine if a given string can be generated by the specified grammar.
  
## Grammar Examples

**grammar.txt:**

```
S -> AB | BC
A -> BA | a
B -> C | b
C -> BB | a
```

With this grammar:
- **Parsable Strings:** `a`
- **Non-Parsable Strings:** `abba`

## Usage

1. **Default Execution:** Run the code using the default values provided:
```bash
python3 parser.py grammar.txt words.txt
```

2. **Custom Execution:** Provide your own grammar and string files for parsing:
```bash
python3 parser.py your_grammar_file.txt your_string_file.txt
```
_Note: Ensure `words.txt` or your custom string file contains only one string in Chomsky Normal Form._

## Code Structure

- `read_grammar(grammar_file)`: Reads and parses the provided grammar, expecting Doty syntax. Outputs a dictionary representation of the grammar.
  
- `grammar_parse(word, grammar)`: Executes the CKY algorithm on the provided word using the specified grammar. It determines if the word can be generated by the grammar.

- `main(grammar_file, string_file)`: Main driver function to orchestrate the reading of grammar, word, and the execution of the CKY algorithm.

## Contributing

I welcome contributions, suggestions, and feedback. Feel free to fork the repository, raise issues, or submit pull requests.

## License

This project is open-source under MIT license. Kindly refer to the accompanying license file for more details.
